= FbRails

FbRails makes it easy to integrate your website with Facebook.


== Setting up

Add the following to your configuration. This can go in config/application.rb, or
customized in each environment in config/environments/[name].rb:

  config.facebook = {
    :app_id     => 'my_app_id',
    :secret     => 'my_app_secret'
  }

or

  config.facebook.app_id = 'my_app_id'
  config.facebook.secret = 'my_app_secret'

Getting the user logged in is out of the scope of this gem. That's what
FBML and the Facebook Javascript API are for. Here's an example:

  <div id="fb-root"></div>
  <script src="http://connect.facebook.net/en_US/all.js"></script>
  <script>
    FB.init({appId: '<%= fb.app_id ?>', status: true, cookie: true, xfbml: true});
  </script>
  <%= fbml 'login-button' %>


== API

FbRails adds an object called 'fb', which is available to all controllers and views:

Determine if the current user is connected through Facebook:

  fb.connected?

Get the Facebook user id for the current user:

  fb.uid

Make a request to the Facebook Graph:

  <% result = fb.graph.get '/me' %>
  my name is <%= result['first_name'] %>

Retrieve your Facebook application app_id or secret:
  fb.app_id
  fb.secret


== Persisting the Facebook User:

Websites that interact with Facebook usually have a user model in a local database.
This user is accessed with 'fb.user':

  The current user is <%= fb.user.inspect %>

For this to work, FbRails assumes there is a model called 'User' with a column 'fb_uid'.
If your user model name is different than 'User', it can be configured:

  config.facebook.user_class_name = 'Author'

If the fb_uid for the current user is not in the database, fb.user is an unsaved instance.
One thing I like to do for new Facebook users is store them in a before filter:

  if fb.connected? && fb.user.new_record?
    data = fb.graph.get('me')
    fb.user.first_name = data['first_name']
    fb.user.last_name = data['last_name']
    fb.user.save
  end


== Testing

Facebook requests can be mocked, so that your requests do not require real HTTP
connections. This is done with FbRails::Mock:

  FbRails::Mock.respond_to do |mock|
    mock.add 'me', 'first_name' => 'Matt', 'last_name' => 'Higgins'
  end

  Now, a call to 'fb.graph.get 'me' returns the above response.